Your blood, blood vessels, and heart
make up your circulatory system.
Your heart pumps the blood,
which carries oxygen and nutrients
through your arteries to all the cells of your body.
Your brain cells need a constant supply
of oxygen and the nutrient glucose,
which are delivered via your bloodstream.
A stroke occurs when the blood supply
to brain cells is cut off
and they begin to die.
In an ischemic stroke,
a blood clot blocks the flow
of blood to the brain.
This is usually related to atherosclerosis,
in which a fatty substance called plaque
builds up on the inner walls of the arteries.
A blood clot can form in the arteries that
carry blood to the brain,
or it can form in another
part of the body and break off.
The clot can then travel to blood vessels
supplying the brain and gets stuck,
blocking flow to the brain.
Within a few seconds without oxygen,
brain cells start to die
and brain damage begins.